Select Page	 	Varsha is a third-year studying Data Science and Society and Environment, with a minor in Sustainable Design. She is heavily involved in the campus environmental community and is continually inspired by the joy, passion, and dedication that everyone holds! The main goals of her office are to center environmental justice in the environmental community and on campus through education, engagement, and advocacy. Her office’s departments will work on projects related to launching and supporting environmental justice campaigns, expanding environmental education, and strengthening eco-community partnerships. She aims to center her office’s work in wellness and intersectionality to uplift and empower student-driven community action. In her free time, she enjoys watching movies, playing cards, and riding her bike!	She/Her/Hers	vmadapoosi@asuc.org	Jakob Evans	The page you are about to navigate to has sensitive content. Are you sure you want to continue?		
Select Page	Nov 13, 2019 | General News | 1  |      	Midterm season is coming to a close, and finals aren’t far behind. Between numerous clubs, sports, and jobs, Berkeley students often end up neglecting their physical and mental health.	Our brains allow us to think, function, and interact with others.That being said, it’s even more important to take care of your mental wellbeing! So whenever you feel overwhelmed or trapped inside a bubble, take the time to count your blessings and remember that you are cared about. We tend to find it easier to focus on the negative aspects of our lives, so making a conscious effort to enjoy college can make all the difference!	Doing your laundry, working out, eating proper meals, going to classes, and hanging out with friends shouldn’t be things that you have to choose between. If you find yourself struggling to balance your academics and social life, know that Berkeley has resources to help you.	Don’t know where to look? The ASUC has a mental health commission as well as wellness resources available for all students. Online at asuc.org/resources, you can find various programs related to mental, physical, and emotional health, as well as their descriptions, hours of operation, contact information, and price point. There are also anonymous and over-the-phone services if you don’t feel comfortable going anywhere or facing someone in person.	Everyone has highs and lows in life, so don’t feel alone during this time. Feeling sadness or other emotions is normal, and it is important to validate others’ feelings as well as your own. Surround yourself with people who bring you joy and when you feel empty, fill yourself up with positivity. Easier said than done, but we’re all Golden Bears for a reason: we’re always up for a challenge.	This month, the ASUC challenges you to join us in improving student wellness. BET? BET. Let’s make November #nonegativitymonth and turn those bad days inside out and upside down. Dump out the contents and see the good in those nasty dust bunnies.	Share:	Rate:	Office of Marketing and Communications	October 17, 2018	April 5, 2019	April 19, 2019	February 13, 2019	The most important thing is for sure healthy food, but for many people this is just not enough. My girlfriend had a big weight problems after a pregnancy. She tried everything to lose weight but nothing works until she discovered https://tiny.cc/LoseWeightNOW, it helped her to start lossing weight daily and afterwords she never had problems with weight again.. I hope this will help someone too.. Wish you all the best	Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *	COMMENT	Name * 	Email * 	Website 	   			The page you are about to navigate to has sensitive content. Are you sure you want to continue?		
Select Page	Apr 19, 2019 | Official Statements | 0  |      		&nbsp;	&nbsp;	&nbsp;												&nbsp;	&nbsp;	  Download a PDF version of this statement here.	Share:	Rate:		January 22, 2020	February 11, 2019	October 22, 2018	April 16, 2019	Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *	COMMENT	Name * 	Email * 	Website 	   			The page you are about to navigate to has sensitive content. Are you sure you want to continue?		
Select Page	Nov 15, 2018 | Official Statements | 0  |      	UPDATE 1:23PM 11/16/2018	We have given away all of our masks. Please remember to limit outdoor exposure!	UPDATE 12:00AM 11/16/2018 Due to worsening air quality, the ASUC will be giving away more N95 masks tomorrow (11/16).	★ Two locations: Sproul and North Gate ★ 12:30 PM – 1:30 PM ★ Please bring your Cal ID ★ One mask per person ★ RRC, QARC, Student Parent Center and UC Village members – please check with your organizations first as you may have masks available	Important information about how to use the masks:&nbsp;https://www.facebook.com/theASUC/posts/2798602063490677	Please follow our ASUC social media channels to receive the latest updates.	UPDATE 6:40PM 11/15/2018 The ASUC will be handing out masks in Lower Sproul Plaza from 7:30pm to 8:30pm. Supplies are limited so please bring your Cal ID. Limit 1 per person.	UPDATE 5:00PM 11/15/2018 The ASUC will be giving out free masks to all UC Berkeley community members tomorrow (11/16) on Sproul, with time to be updated. Please follow our ASUC social media channels to receive the latest updates.	
 
  
 	Share:	Rate:		April 18, 2019	January 31, 2019	April 19, 2019	February 24, 2019	Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *	COMMENT	Name * 	Email * 	Website 	   			The page you are about to navigate to has sensitive content. Are you sure you want to continue?		
Select Page	June 7, 2021 | General News	COVID-19 Documentary	COVID-19 Documentary	| General News	COVID-19 Documentary	COVID-19 Documentary	November 16, 2020 | General News	Manifesting Your Dreams	Manifesting Your Dreams	| General News	Manifesting Your Dreams	Manifesting Your Dreams	Whether you’re a freshman or a senior, living in the units or in Enclave, you’ve probably thought at some point during the semester, “What is happening in the world right now? This situation is so wack.” Trust me, I’ve wondered the same on numerous occasions.	Whether you’re a freshman or a senior, living in the units or in Enclave, you’ve probably thought at some point during the semester, “What is happening in the world right now? This situation is so wack.” Trust me, I’ve wondered the same on numerous occasions.	January 22, 2020 | Official Statements	Statement on Partnerships with The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal	Statement on Partnerships with The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal	| Official Statements	Statement on Partnerships with The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal	Statement on Partnerships with The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal	All UC Berkeley undergraduate and graduate students will have free and unlimited access to the online published content of The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal until their date of graduation. 	All UC Berkeley undergraduate and graduate students will have free and unlimited access to the online published content of The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal until their date of graduation. 	November 13, 2019 | General News	Prioritizing Your Mental Health	Prioritizing Your Mental Health	| General News	Prioritizing Your Mental Health	Prioritizing Your Mental Health	Midterm season is coming to a close, and finals aren’t far behind. Between numerous clubs, sports, and jobs, Berkeley students often end up neglecting their physical and mental health.	Midterm season is coming to a close, and finals aren’t far behind. Between numerous clubs, sports, and jobs, Berkeley students often end up neglecting their physical and mental health.	April 19, 2019 | Official Statements	ASUC Executive &amp; Appointed Officers Committee Statement 4/19/19	ASUC Executive &amp; Appointed Officers Committee Statement 4/19/19	| Official Statements	ASUC Executive &amp; Appointed Officers Committee Statement 4/19/19	ASUC Executive &amp; Appointed Officers Committee Statement 4/19/19	The ASUC Executive and Appointed Officers Committee, comprised of the five ASUC Executive Officials and the five Appointed Officials, affirms our support for President Alexander Wilfert’s emergency order issued on April 19th. 	The ASUC Executive and Appointed Officers Committee, comprised of the five ASUC Executive Officials and the five Appointed Officials, affirms our support for President Alexander Wilfert’s emergency order issued on April 19th. 	The page you are about to navigate to has sensitive content. Are you sure you want to continue?		
Select Page	by asucdev | Jun 7, 2021 | General News | 0  |      	Riya and Era’s discovery project is a documentary on the coronavirus in Berkeley to...	by ASUC CCO Office | Nov 16, 2020 | General News | 0  |      	Whether you’re a freshman or a senior, living in the units or in Enclave, you’ve probably thought at some point during the semester, “What is happening in the world right now? This situation is so wack.” Trust me, I’ve wondered the same on numerous occasions.	by ASUC CCO Office | Nov 13, 2019 | General News | 1  |      	Midterm season is coming to a close, and finals aren’t far behind. Between numerous clubs, sports, and jobs, Berkeley students often end up neglecting their physical and mental health.	by asucdev | Apr 19, 2019 | General News | 0  |      	Today, President Alexander Wilfert issued an emergency order which we anticipate will generate a number of questions. The Office of the Chief Communications Officer therefore presents answers to some anticipated common questions in this statement in order to clarify the situation. 	by asucdev | Apr 5, 2019 | General News | 0  |      	On Sunday, February 23rd, all the Spring interns for the ASUC gathered for a half-day bootcamp that had them learn more about ASUC. The purpose of the bootcamp was to inform incoming interns about the inner workings of the ASUC while providing useful information about the ASUC’s history and structure before interns begin their work in student government. 	by asucdev | Feb 13, 2019 | General News | 0  |      	After numerous meetings with campus leadership including the Chancellor and multiple Vice Chancellors (VCs) and the passage of ASUC Senate Resolution No. 2018/2019-057, we are happy to announce that campus leadership has agreed to the following accommodations during Ramadan:	by ASUC CCO Office | Jan 28, 2019 | General News | 0  |      	Creating change on campus is hard. That’s why we need you with us. Here’s the chance to learn more about what it’s like to work in one of the nation’s largest, oldest and most autonomous student governments.	by ASUC CCO Office | Oct 24, 2018 | General News | 1  |      	Bright and early on the morning of Sunday, September 30, members of the various ASUC offices...	by ASUC CCO Office | Oct 17, 2018 | General News | 0  |      	William Morrow served as the President of the Associated Students of the University of California...	The page you are about to navigate to has sensitive content. Are you sure you want to continue?		
 As an independent student newspaper and the paper of record for the city of Berkeley, the Daily Cal has been communicating important updates during this pandemic.  Your support is essential to maintaining this coverage. 	ASUC Elections 2021	By Iris Kwok | Staff	UC Berkeley sophomore Varsha Madapoosi is running independently for ASUC Senate on a platform built on intersectionality and environmental justice.	Pursuing a double major in data science and society and environment, Madapoosi is running to represent the campus environmental community, or eco-community. Her priorities as a senatorial candidate include expanding environmental justice and intersectional education, as well as fostering a stronger network within the eco-community.	Madapoosi’s platform is shaped by her experiences of feeling like an “imposter” for not fitting in with the common definition of what an environmentalist is. However, through her involvement in campus environmental organizations, such as the Students of Color Environmental Collective, she has developed her own narrative of what an environmentalist is.	“I spent a lot of time in the eco-community because the community was, like, the first place where I really felt at home on campus,” Madapoosi said. “Walking into the (Student Environmental Resource Center)&nbsp;space and meeting everyone was just so heartwarming, especially as a freshman with no idea what’s going on.”	Madapoosi added that she intends to expand conversations on accessibility and environmentalism on campus by forming partnerships and collaborations with organizations serving underrepresented communities. Her goal is to work toward integrating environmental justice into every environmental dialogue and ensure underrepresented communities are given a voice.	Madapoosi is endorsed by Sarah Bancroft, the current ASUC eco-focused senator. Madapoosi said she is running independently to continue a legacy of past independent eco-community senators — if elected, Madapoosi will be the ninth consecutive senator to represent the community.	“It’s the most effective way to represent our community internally,” Madapoosi said in regards to running as an independent candidate. “I can focus entirely on our own community rather than getting involved in ASUC politics and kind of getting thrown down the hole.”	Although Madapoosi announced the launch of her campaign about a week ago, she noted that the eco-community has already been very supportive, and she is feeling “humbled” by the extent to which her platforms have resonated with the community.	While Madapoosi is primarily running to represent the eco-community on campus, she said the other identities she holds, such as being a member of the South Asian community and a student worker, allow her to bring an “intersectional lens” to further conversations on a wide range of issues.	“I’m always here, ready to grow and learn,” Madapoosi said. “Environmentalism is for everyone on campus; you don’t have to be in (Rausser College of Natural Resources), you don’t have to be an environmental major to care about sustainability. You can have multiple interests, and environmentalism can be at the root of it all.”	ASUC elections will be held virtually from April 5 to April 7.	Contact Iris Kwok at [email&nbsp;protected] and follow her on Twitter at @iriskkwok.	 Copyright © 2022 The Daily Californian, The Independent Berkeley Student Publishing Co., Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy. Use desktop site by default. Mobile site. 	
Donate	Donate	 The Daily Californian Education Foundation  | 94-3110529  	$81,475	 324 supporters 	 $150,000 goal 	Team Members	$19,056	39 supporters	$2,090	10 supporters	$3,600	13 supporters	$1,740	11 supporters	$950	6 supporters	$100	1 supporter	$1,000	1 supporter	$1,000	1 supporter	$0	0 supporters	Event	Annual campaign	Organizer	Created By	The Daily Californian Education Foundation	EIN: 94-3110529	Story		“We need to train a new generation of journalists that knows what facts really are and tells the story straight and helps to inform the American public to keep our democracy functioning. That’s an incredibly important function that The Daily Cal has performed in the past and continues to perform and can continue to perform in the future if all of us support it.”	— Max Boot, Washington Post columnist and Daily Cal alumnus		The Daily Californian holds a distinctive place in the world of university student newspapers. Established three years after UC Berkeley’s founding, the newspaper today covers the campus community of our country’s top public research university, the iconic city metropolis of Berkeley, the immense 10-campus UC system and more. Carrying on the Daily Cal’s long- standing tradition of winning top honors, in 2020 the California News Publishers Association’s California Journalism Awards named it the state’s top student newspaper in its General Excellence category.	Help us celebrate The Daily Californian's 150th anniversary and the 50th year of our independence. And, help support our work as we continue to train the up and coming journalists and professionals of the future while providing quality news to our local community.		The Daily Californian Educational Foundation – Federal Tax ID #94-3110529&nbsp; &nbsp;	Established in 1991 as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization, The Daily Californian Education Foundation was created to support the growth, advancement and training of college journalists at The Daily Californian. By supplying much-needed operational costs, the foundation has allowed The Daily Californian to provide relevant and important news to the Berkeley community.	Donate	Secure transaction	$81,475	 324 supporters 	 $150,000 goal 	Link copied to clipboard	Create an account or login below to join this fundraiser.			Logged in as  	Don't have an account? Sign up.	Sign up with email	Profile picture	 	Subscribe to our Good Newsletter and receive free stickers.	By creating an account, you agree to the Terms of Service.	Already have an account? Sign in.	Success! We've emailed you a link to reset your password.	Create an account or login below to leave your name alongside your comment or reaction			Logged in as  	Don't have an account? Sign up.	Sign up with email	Profile picture	 	Subscribe to our Good Newsletter and receive free stickers.	By creating an account, you agree to the Terms of Service.	Already have an account? Sign in.	Success! We've emailed you a link to reset your password.		The Daily Californian Education Foundation	A 501(c)(3) organization	EIN 94-3110529	© 2022 Givebutter, Inc. All rights reserved.	
 As an independent student newspaper and the paper of record for the city of Berkeley, the Daily Cal has been communicating important updates during this pandemic.  Your support is essential to maintaining this coverage. 	Public transportation services in the Bay Area will eliminate fares and extend hours on New Year’s Eve to accommodate celebrators and workers with late-night shifts.&nbsp;Read More…	The City of Berkeley announced today that beginning Dec. 30, masks will be required in all indoor public settings, regardless of vaccination status.&nbsp;Read More…	Give now	 On Friday, Dec. 31st, the legitimacy of this Cal team will be tested under its first Pac-12 trial as it opens its conference schedule in Pullman, Washington, against Washington State.Read More…	Cal men’s basketball will hope to build on their end of year momentum and put the challenges of 2021 behind them when they welcome Arizona State.Read More…	Through Sneed’s musicality and showmanship, members of the hall were transported back and forth in era, or held in the present as a 25-minute rendition of a fluttery “Joy to the World” flew by in a joyous blur.Read More…	The grand spectacle of “The Nutcracker” — of the glittering costumes, lavish production design, impossibly difficult yet effortlessly executed movements — kindles a rare sense of pathos. One that lingers long after the intermission and settles in on the drive along the Bay Bridge.Read More…	Here are our takes on what the ASUC Executives and Senators have accomplished so far and what they have planned for the spring.Read More…	Sustaining our precious planet must come first. Our traditions and customs may unite us with others, but they are presently dividing us from our planet.Read More…	Maybe it’s my fault you are low to the point of concern; I committed to others and tried to show it, and you paid the price.Read More…	Here are a few ways to celebrate the holidays with roommates and friends, ranging from Christmas-themed activities to gift exchanges.Read More…	We’ve gone through the off-campus housing search multiple times and have seen many versions of the process. Here’s our guide to help you through it.Read More…	As the year comes to an end, I want to take the time to reflect by writing down some pieces of advice that I had been given by my friends and family.Read More…	 Copyright © 2022 The Daily Californian, The Independent Berkeley Student Publishing Co., Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy. Use desktop site by default. Mobile site. 	
 As an independent student newspaper and the paper of record for the city of Berkeley, the Daily Cal has been communicating important updates during this pandemic.  Your support is essential to maintaining this coverage. 	City	Public transportation services in the Bay Area will eliminate fares and extend hours on New Year’s Eve to accommodate celebrators and workers with late-night shifts.&nbsp;Read More…	City	The City of Berkeley announced today that beginning Dec. 30, masks will be required in all indoor public settings, regardless of vaccination status.&nbsp;Read More…	UC	UC Merced announced in a campus-wide email Wednesday that the start of its spring semester will be remote from Jan. 18 through Jan. 22.&nbsp;Read More…	Obituary	UC Berkeley alumna and pioneer of “new journalism” Joan Didion died Thursday, Dec. 23, due to Parkinson’s disease at the age of 87Read More…	City	The city of Berkeley is set to become one of the first cities in the nation to incorporate blockchain technology in its municipal bond market.Read More…	Campus	Community-led campaign Saving Anna Head School is raising awareness of the dilapidated state of Anna Head School and calling on campus administrators to provide funds to help preserve it.Read More…	Alameda County	Up to 6 inches of snow could fall on East Bay and Mount Diablo between Sunday and Tuesday, according to the National Weather Service, as reported by SFGate.&nbsp;Read More…	Campus	As the omicron variant of COVID-19 rages through the country, ASUC officials worry a lack of care could lead to a devastating campus outbreak.Read More…	Campus	COVID-19 has been spreading through campus ever since students returned from the academic holiday in November. However, since the end of Thanksgiving break, there has been a significant increase in positive cases.Read More…	UC	With omicron having become the dominant COVID-19 variant, the UC Office of the President has given campuses the option to begin their spring terms remotely.Read More…	 Copyright © 2022 The Daily Californian, The Independent Berkeley Student Publishing Co., Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy. Use desktop site by default. Mobile site. 	
 As an independent student newspaper and the paper of record for the city of Berkeley, the Daily Cal has been communicating important updates during this pandemic.  Your support is essential to maintaining this coverage. 	Campus	Community-led campaign Saving Anna Head School is raising awareness of the dilapidated state of Anna Head School and calling on campus administrators to provide funds to help preserve it.Read More…	Campus	As the omicron variant of COVID-19 rages through the country, ASUC officials worry a lack of care could lead to a devastating campus outbreak.Read More…	Campus	COVID-19 has been spreading through campus ever since students returned from the academic holiday in November. However, since the end of Thanksgiving break, there has been a significant increase in positive cases.Read More…	Student Life	The class of 2021 graduated in person. Surviving the most recent years strengthened the class and created a sense of connection and family between them.Read More…	Campus	The goal of the campuswide plan is to ensure every undergraduate has the opportunity to pursue creative, independent “discovery projects.”Read More…	Campus	Amid national labor market disruptions and employee departures, DSP is experiencing a shortage of specialist staff resulting in accommodation delays for students.Read More…	Student Life	As Moffitt Library and Main Stacks have extended their hours around the clock throughout Reading, Review and Recitation and finals weeks, library employees have reported staffing shortages and increased student misconduct.Read More…	ASUC	The ASUC External Affairs Vice President condemned actions taken by the Turkish government against the student body of Boğaziçi University in Istanbul.Read More…	Research &amp; Ideas	The UC Berkeley Center for Studies in Higher Education, or CSHE, published a study Dec. 6 showing that major restriction policies cause racial inequity and resource inefficiency.Read More…	Research &amp; Ideas	Recent research from the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory published online Dec. 8 showed that an increase of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has led plants to photosynthesize more, though it will not be enough to stop climate change.Read More…	 Copyright © 2022 The Daily Californian, The Independent Berkeley Student Publishing Co., Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy. Use desktop site by default. Mobile site. 	
 As an independent student newspaper and the paper of record for the city of Berkeley, the Daily Cal has been communicating important updates during this pandemic.  Your support is essential to maintaining this coverage. 	City	Public transportation services in the Bay Area will eliminate fares and extend hours on New Year’s Eve to accommodate celebrators and workers with late-night shifts.&nbsp;Read More…	City	The City of Berkeley announced today that beginning Dec. 30, masks will be required in all indoor public settings, regardless of vaccination status.&nbsp;Read More…	City	The city of Berkeley is set to become one of the first cities in the nation to incorporate blockchain technology in its municipal bond market.Read More…	City	According to a PG&amp;E press release, meteorologists are expecting storms to afflict parts of California in the coming week — including the city of Berkeley.Read More…	Crime &amp; Courts	More than $1000 worth of clothing was stolen from the campus student store Saturday 11:48 a.m.Read More…	City Government	The Berkeley City Council determined funding allocations for fiscal year 2022 and the city’s legislative platform for next year at its regular meeting Tuesday.Read More…	City Government	The Berkeley City Council voted to advance several affordable and supportive housing initiatives at a special meeting Dec. 14.Read More…	Local Businesses	The tallest building built in the city of Berkeley in half a century has completed construction: a 331-room Marriott hotel on Center Street in Downtown.Read More…	City	The Berkeley-based animal rights network Direct Action Everywhere, or DxE, held a demonstration Sunday protesting horse deaths at Golden Gate Fields, or GGF.&nbsp;Read More…	City	The city of Berkeley applied for the grant earlier this year in order to fund a new park in the undeveloped areas of the Santa Fe Right of Way, a 3.5-mile area formerly used as an industrial railroad, according to Mayor Jesse Arreguín in a press release.Read More…	 Copyright © 2022 The Daily Californian, The Independent Berkeley Student Publishing Co., Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy. Use desktop site by default. Mobile site. 	
Kira StollChief Sustainability &amp; Carbon Solutions Officer&nbsp;	Director of the Office of Sustainability	stoll@berkeley.edu510-642-0074	Sign up for OS Office Hours here.		CNI Student Fellows at their end-of-year Symposium poster session.	Donna S. Lee	Executive Assistant&nbsp;	donnal@berkeley.edu	Britney Wu	OS Fellow	britwu123@berkeley.edu&nbsp;	Kathryn Wilson	Zero Waste Coalition Chair	Kathryn is a 4th year studying Society and Environment with a minor in Education. She previously served as the Vice Chair of the Zero Waste Coalition, as well as worked as an Energy and Water Conservation Coordinator for the Housing and Dining Sustainability Advocates (HADSA). She currently facilitates the Energy &amp; Sustainability Decal on campus, where students are exposed to a broad range of energy professionals and learn the basics of renewable energy systems. Outside of academics and work, she competes on Cal Club Tennis and enjoys hiking the fire trails on weekends!	kathryn.wilson@berkeley.edu	Varsha Madapoosi	Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Justice (DEIJ) Fellow	Varsha is leading the Office of Sustainability’s work to elevate environmental justice initiatives on campus through diversity, equity, and inclusion in sustainability practices and policies. She specifically is working on implementing DEI into the Campus Sustainability Plan and serving as a liaison between the OS and student/staff groups.	sustainability@berkeley.edu	Jack Chang	Sustainability Assessment and STARS Analyst,&nbsp;Peet's Graduate Student Fellow	jack_chang@berkeley.edu	Ash Reining	OS Fellow	sustainability@berkeley.edu	Jason Lam	Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Justice (DEIJ) Fellow	jasonklam@berkeley.edu	Rohith Moolakatt 	Bonnie Reiss Carbon Neutrality Initiative Student Fellow 	Rohith is working to foster UC Berkeley's climate change resiliency planning and engage with the related City of Berkeley, regional, and UC efforts. He is also focusing on motivating individuals to take action to reduce energy usage through digital education and collaboration with the campus environmental community.	rohithmoolakatt@berkeley.edu&nbsp;	Emily Que	Zero Waste Coalition Vice Chair	Emily is a 2nd year studying Architecture with a minor in Sustainable Design. She is also currently working as an intern at Building Sustainably at Cal (BS@C) where she focuses on implementing green building strategies in order to improve LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) ratings for building on campus. She previously worked as a sustainability intern for the Housing and Dining Sustainability Advocates (HADSA) where she spearheaded her own energy saving project for the residence halls. Along with her work in sustainability, Emily also loves reading, photography, and hiking!	emilyque20@berkeley.edu	Sabreena Verma	Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Justice (DEIJ) Fellow	sustainability@berkeley.edu	Office of Sustainability615H University HallBerkeley, CA 94720	Email: sustainability@berkeley.edu Phone: (510) 642-0074	Home Office of SustainabilityEngage Zero Waste Carbon NeutralityRethinking EnergyOur PerformancePlans &amp; Reports	Berkeley Main Page Vice Chancellor Administration Visiting Berkeley	Powered by Open Berkeley	Accessibility Statement	Nondiscrimination Policy Statement	Privacy Statement	Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved 	Back to Top	
From a group of academic pioneers in 1868 to the Free Speech Movement in 1964, Berkeley is a place where the brightest minds from across the globe come together to explore, ask questions and improve the world.	Want to change the world? At Berkeley we’re doing just that. When you join the Golden Bear community, you’re part of an institution that shifts the global conversation every single day. 	Berkeley is home to some of the world's greatest minds leading more than 130 academic departments and 80 interdisciplinary research units and addressing the world’s most pertinent challenges. 	From expeditions to Egypt in the late 1800s to stem cell research and artificial intelligence today, Berkeley has been at the forefront of research throughout its history. Here students can work side-by-side with Nobel Laureates, Fields medal winners, Fulbright Scholars and MacArthur fellows. 	Life at Berkeley blends research and reflection, the scientific with the artistic, and the scholarly with the athletic. Our students come from different places and backgrounds, but together they create a diverse and kinetic community that seeks to create a better world. 	A year of deep reflection and great achievement	Joseph Grinnell, the founding director of the Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, and zoology professor Tracy Storer conduct a landmark survey of Sierra Nevada birds, mammals, reptiles&nbsp;and amphibians&nbsp;from the Central Valley… 	
Get the latest Berkeley news about Returning to Campus	The Administrative Division delivers innovative an effective operations that support the world's leading public university. VCA is comprised of twelve departments and the Vice Chancellor's immediate office.&nbsp;	The Administrative Divsion supports Berkeley's academic mission through strategic policy and managerial leadership of operations. Comprised of twelve distinct departments and the Vice Chancellor's immediate office, the division employs staff in service, technical, clerical, management, professional, and police roles.	Resources contains links to useful campus resources and information to help navigate the Berkeley campus and administration. Events includes links to video recordings of VCA leaders speaking on campus and at conferences.	The Administratrion Division sponsors special projects to improve service and efficiency. Links to project information are featured here as new projects are added.		Learn about the importance of The Gateway, opening in 2025 to house Computing, Data Science, and Society.		Information about the Police Review Board.	Click for a list of VCA departments and contact information.	Vice Chancellor, Administration200 California HallBerkeley, CA 94720-1500	Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration Berkeley News The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events	Powered by Open Berkeley	Accessibility Statement	Nondiscrimination Policy Statement	Privacy Statement	Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved 	Back to Top	
Student leaders, city, campus and community stakeholders, and UCOP sustainability staff recently took part in the Diversity-Equity-Inclusion-Justice (DEIJ) Centered Climate Change Resiliency Planning Workshop. The participatory, two-and-a-half-hour workshop was the second in a series and provided an opportunity for diverse stakeholders to begin to define a climate change resilience vision for UC Berkeley and next steps for planning and action.	Following UC Berkeley’s reception of a Platinum Rating in the Sustainability, Tracking, Assessment &amp; Rating System, the UC Berkeley Office of Sustainability aimed to further explore UC Berkeley’s role as an institute of higher education in promoting the United		Berkeley students compare notes overlooking Strawberry Creek, a thriving campus natural feature experienced by 3,000 university students each year for education and research. | Photo by Keegan Houser	The&nbsp;Office of Sustainability is seeking an undergraduate student to fill the&nbsp;Justice, Equity, Diversity &amp; Inclusion (JEDI) Fellow position&nbsp;(link to download job description)!	Federal Government&nbsp;Relations&nbsp;		UC campus sustainability offices and staff recently signed onto a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Statement of UC Sustainability Offices and Staff, which they have developed over the past year.	In its 2021 submission, UC Berkeley earned a Platinum rating in the Sustainability, Tracking, Assessment &amp; Rating System, a comprehensive sustainability rating system for colleges and universities that addresses the environmental, social, and economic dimensions of sustainability. This marks an exciting achievement from our first-ever STARS submission in 2018, advancing our campus from Gold to Platinum despite stricter criteria un	UC Berkeley’s&nbsp;sustainability course offerings make up almost 50% of all campus courses. At the undergraduate level, UC Berkeley offers almost 800 sustainability-focused courses and about&nbsp;1,150&nbsp;sustainability-related courses, making 50% of all undergraduate classes sustainability-focused or -related.		In February, the Administrative Division released its Annual Report highlighting the goals &amp; achievements of the past year, despite the challenges that it presented. The report features milestones of the Office of Sustainability, such as the new partnership with a solar voltaic vendor that will assist UC Berkeley in increasing solar PV energy on campus.	Check out the "By the Numbers" summary (page 4), and read about additional exciting sustainability &amp; carbon solutions highlights (page 30). 	The New UC Berkeley Sustainability Plan	How has the shift in behaviors due to the pandemic affected the environment in terms of energy and transportation?	Questions to think about: 		Introduction:	On December 8th, 100 people joined an on-line event to hear about ideas to decarbonize the UC Berkeley energy system with Vice Chancellor Marc Fisher, Associate Vice Chancellor Sally McGarrahan, and Chief Sustainability Officer Kira Stoll.	The 2020 National Zero Waste Virtual Conference is just wrapping up it's three-day event. The conference was originally planned to be in-person in March 2020 here at UC Berkeley. Due to the pandemic the event moved to a virtual platform using a flexible and interactive tool called REMO. Almost 500 people attended. Kira Stoll, UC Berkeley's Chief Sustainability and Carbon Solutions Officer provided a welcome address highlighting Zero Waste at Cal. Here are her remarks:		"COVID-19 is&nbsp;changing&nbsp;how the U.S. disposes of waste. It is also threatening hard-fought victories that restricted or eliminated single-use disposable items, especially plastic, in cities and towns across the nation."	In this moment, we ask of ourselves and of the sustainability community that we all continue to take action and reflect on the work necessary to create a more socially, environmentally, and racially just world.&nbsp;We stand in solidarity with our Black students, staff, faculty and community members.&nbsp;	In the words of Chancellor Carol Christ and Vice Chancellor for Equity and Inclusion Oscar Dubón, Jr. in their recent statement on racism and police brutality: 				For Immediate Release: Wednesday, April 15, 2020	For More Information:&nbsp;		April 2020	Earth Month Week 1		February 2020	Spring into the Semester with the Office of Sustainability!&nbsp;	California’s last drought was declared over in 2017- but did we speak too soon?		When Sage Lenier first offered her course two years ago, there were 25 students enrolled. Now, there are more than 160 students in the class and another 45 on the waiting list..		Launched in July 2019, the&nbsp;IARU e-publication Global Priorities, Educated Solutions: The Role of Academia in Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals&nbsp;highlights the capacity of Higher Education Institutions to support progress on the UN Sustainable Development Goals and provides pathways for this work.	Today, UC Berkeley received five best practice awards at the annual California Higher Education Sustainability Conference in Santa Barbara. Berkeley's efforts on zero waste, environmental Justice, toxin reduction, and climate action took the honors. The awards highlight the breadth, depth and leadership in sustainability the campus both values and excels in.&nbsp;	“Berkeley is proud to take the crown of Coolest UC this year,” Stoll said, “but it is open game next time around — and UCLA has got some chops. Ultimately this is a win for the planet and for all of us to have deeper engagement with our community.”	Read the press release&nbsp;from UC	Read the press from the Daily Cal	Funding Opportunities for Climate Mitigation Projects	As Part of UC’s Carbon Neutrality Initiative	REQUEST FOR IDEAS			UC Berkeley has long led the way in sustainability research, be it environmental, social or economic sustainability, and that history fills the campus' course catalog. Sustainability classes don't come only from perhaps more predictable departments such as Environmental Science, Policy, and Management or Sociology. Students can also learn how U.S. populations have interacted differently with their environment throughout the nation's history (History 120AC) or how environmentalism and politics intertwined in Cold War Germany (German 160C).		Did you know that during this year’s winter curtailment we anticipate saving energy and over $100,000? Help us do more!	The&nbsp;Climate Leadership Network, made up of the over 500 signatories to the Presidents’ Climate Leadership Commitments, mobilizes the sector’s knowledge and practical expertise to accelerate global climate action and local community impact.	The new lights and bulbs will be installed across campus. (UC Berkeley photos by Megan Lee)	UC Berkeley will be looking a little lighter and brighter in the next few weeks after nearly 100 new energy-efficient LED lampposts are installed across campus.	October 2018		Zero Waste &amp; Carbon Neutrality Workshop	“Every degree matters, and the warmer it gets, the worse it gets.” Umair Irfan, a staff writer from Vox who covers climate change, says that might seem like an obvious statement. However, that simple sentence carries enormous weight for the future of millions of people and ecosystems.	The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) released a report on Monday that detailed the drastic impact that climate change will have on humans and the environment if global temperatures continue to rise.	“The University of California today (Sept. 4) announced a bold expansion of its systemwide sustainability goals as part of its Carbon Neutrality Initiative and leadership on climate change efforts.”	To read full press release, click here	Many Community Choice Aggregators are marketing clean energy by simply rearranging where existing low-carbon electricity goes.	Green Team leader Danner Doud-Martin (right) and Michelle La sort trash. (UC Berkeley photos by Jim Block)	Haas Green Team leader Danner Doud-Martin and the Zero Waste Initiative volunteers were separating trash on a loading dock behind Chou Hall when former Berkeley Haas Dean Rich Lyons made a surprise appearance.	&nbsp;	Widespread use of proven agricultural land management practices can help slow global warming. (Heather Dang photo)	With its new bike paths, urban cycling classes and student-run bicycle co-op, UC Berkeley is&nbsp;one of the most bicycle-friendly campuses&nbsp;in the country, as ranked by the&nbsp;League of American Bicyclists	Cal Move Out: There’s an App for That, a New Website and More	An infographic we featured at the Sustainability Summit.				UC Berkeley Continues As Champion in Pac-12 Road to Zero Waste Competition		The Office of Sustainability is very pleased to announce our new Instagram platform! Instagram is a photo-sharing social media that is popular among college students, and we believe it can be a fun and creative way for everyone (not just students) in our community to express their sustainability aspiration and passion. Social media&nbsp;can be a powerful tool for creating a connection throughout the wider campus community, and that’s why we’ve decided to take on a new one.	Renewable energy in the Trump era: Industry leaders highlight the way forward at the western U.S.’s biggest student-run energy conference	How are the nation’s renewable energy innovators building a more sustainable future even in the Trump era? Industry leaders, researchers and top government officials will answer that urgent question at the Berkeley Energy &amp; Resources Collaborative (BERC)’s annual Energy Summit - the biggest student-run energy conference in the western U.S.&nbsp;&nbsp;		Water is a precious resource, and every drop counts.	On&nbsp;February 24th, Cal will be defending the champion title for the 4th year in the Pac-12 Road to Zero Waste Competition, at the Men's basketball game against University of Washington. This year’s theme is centered around zero waste and sustainability, emphasizing ReUSE. Elementary students from Hesperian Elementary in San Leandro will be volunteering to “trash-talk” with fans at the game. Volunteers will be there to help fans reduce, ReUSE, recycle and compost.	Did you know that during this year’s winter curtailment we anticipate energy savings to save over $100,000? Help us do more!	As a part of the UC Berkeley Green Labs (GLs) program, recent efforts this semester focused on recirculating water within the College of Chemistry from traditional chemical condensation reactions. It is estimated that a typical column reaction consumes 3,600 liters of water for every 24 hours. After discovering that some groups were running continuous reactions for days or even weeks at a time, GLs grew determined to collaborate with these labs to help them achieve their water-saving potential.	&nbsp;UC Berkeley participated in the 2017 Pac-12 Zero Waste Bowl &amp; GameDay Challenge, where universities from the Pac-12 Conference competed to divert the most waste from landfill at a selected football game. The competition is scored based not only on diversion rate but also on fan engagement, innovative promotional tactics and partnerships with businesses and different campus departments.&nbsp;	Did you know that during this year’s winter curtailment the Campus Energy Office anticipates energy reductions to save over $100,000? Help us do more!	The Student Carbon Neutrality Fellows will engage and communicate about campus and UC-wide sustainability goals and programs with a focus on climate related issues. The fellows will coordinate in-depth campaigns, including green certification programs at Berkeley and work with other fellows across the UC System.&nbsp;	Hiring Office:	Office of Sustainability, UC Berkeley	Job Title:	UC Student Carbon Neutrality Fellow – Berkeley Campus	The Office of Sustainability was a proud contributor to this year's Golden Bear Prep, a required on-line orientation for new students.&nbsp;Over 7,000 new undergraduates completed this learning module highlighting campus sustainability and ways to get involved. This is the first time we've been able showcase our points of pride to so many incoming students!	Berkeley sustainability was highlighted as one of six Points of Pride - this is what we shared with our new students	Berkeley proudly ranks 27 out of 227 participating universities in the Sierra Club's Cool Schools 2017.	Based on this year's criteria we did especially well for our sustainable transportation (ranking 9th) and water (ranking 14th). As a large public research institution this is an accomplishment.	But there is more we can do, together, to be a leading sustainable campus.	Bringing solar power to the Berkeley campus has been a top priority for sustainability. This year we met our goal of fully realizing four new campus solar sites and ushering in an era where campus renewable electricity systems have become a more welcome part of Berkeley's energy program!	And there is nothing like seeing the production in&nbsp;action, so check out the two largest site's solar power dashboards:&nbsp;	When Doug Bell heard that a pair of peregrine falcons was nesting on the Campanile, he couldn’t believe his luck. An avid falconer, Bell has been fascinated with peregrines — the fastest animal in the world — since he was a kid growing up in Berkeley. He received his Ph.D. in zoology from UC Berkeley, where he studied&nbsp;ornithology and systematic biology. But never before had he heard of peregrines nesting on top of the campus’s 300-foot-high bell tower. “It blew me away,” he says.&nbsp;&nbsp;		Carbon Neutrality Student Fellowship: UCOP Fellowships for 2017-2018Applications Due: 5/31/2017Eligibility: All currently enrolled UC undergraduate or graduate studentsLocation: UC Office of the President in OaklandDuration: September/October 2017 – June/July 2018Compensation: $13/hour (higher rate for grad students, based on experience)	With some of the world’s greatest assets of plant, animal, ecosystem and human diversity, and as the world’s sixth largest economy and provider of more than half the nation’s fruits, nuts and vegetables, sustaining California’s vitality is paramount. And as we face greater demands from a changing climate and growing population, taking a proactive approach to maintaining sustainable growth for California is critical.	As Africa gears up for a tripling of electricity demand by 2030, a new Berkeley study maps out a viable strategy for developing wind and solar power while simultaneously reducing the continent’s reliance on fossil fuels and lowering power plant construction costs.&nbsp; Read more.	In celebration of Earth Week and Climate Change Action, UC Berkeley Office of Sustainability and Energy and Students Environmental Resources Center are sponsoring FREE tickets to join East Bay Climate Action Expo: a night to celebrate the community-based efforts to address climate change issues in the Easy Bay.	In January, Berkeley won one of PepsiCo's inaugural Zero Impact Fund grants: $10,000 for our Cal Zero Waste efforts. The Blue &amp; Gold Make Green: Golden Bears Strive for Zero Waste project was one of only 8 winners nationwide. By adding zero waste bins, signage, education and outreach to the campus community, the project will contribute to efforts to achieve the campus zero waste goal by 2020.&nbsp; For more information visit the Zero Impact Fund site.&nbsp; Stay tuned for more campus updates.	Once again, Berkeley has been recognized as a leader in higher education sustainability.&nbsp; The campus was ranked #8 by GreenMetric this year (http://greenmetric.ui.ac.id/overall-ranking-2016/),&nbsp;an initiative of Universitas Indonesia since 2010.&nbsp; Berkeley tied for #1 in the wa	Check out the video from the Cal Dining Sustainability Team: Weigh Your Waste!		Heating and ventilation will again be curtailed on the Berkeley campus during the period from&nbsp;the end of the business day Friday, December 23, 2016 through Monday, January 2, 2017.&nbsp;Reducing energy and steam use during the winter break last year created cost savings to the campus of approximately $127,000. Learn how you can help our campus save energy by following these tips:	curtailment_checklist_2013_2.jpg	The Office of Sustainability and Energy participated in last month’s Big Give and wanted to share our appreciation for all who donated.&nbsp; Your generosity and support over the years of our efforts is greatly appreciated.&nbsp; Your backing will continue to be important as the campus tackles global and local challenges like achieving carbon neutrality and responding to the historic drought.	Increasing people's access to electricity can help uplift them out of poverty especially in places that lack any access. For the past two decades, renewable energy technologies have made an enormous progress to prove that the solution to improving poverty is renewable energy. Read more about Dr.	UC Berkeley is once again honored by the Princeton Review as one of the most sustainable universities in the country.&nbsp; We were recognized for our climate action planning as well as our work on energy efficiency and the number of engaged sustainability student groups.&nbsp; Our work in water conservation, sustainable food, and active transportation were also part of the favorable review.		Have you ever considered the combination of energy-efficiency, net-zero emissions, and renewable energy to build a truly energy-efficient, environmentally-friendly, and innovative home? UC Berkeley’s own Solar Decathlon Team is on a quest to blend engineering and design ingenuity with environmentally-friendly concepts and to build their first zero-emission home from the ground up!		Energy efficiency may be the answer to reducing our electricity consumption and combating climate change, especially when it can be achieved without sacrificing consumers’ comfort and convenience. California’s Energy Commission approved $1.9-million in funding to a research team, led by UC Berkeley’s Center for the Built Environment to integrate commercially-available smart ceiling fans and thermostats in under-served and low-income families in California. This project will evaluate how to achieve energy efficiency without sacrificing comfort.	The Office of Sustainability and Energy now has six new and returning student associates -- all talented, smart, and commited to helping the campus reach its sustainability goals.&nbsp; We are sharing their answers to a few questions below by way of introduction.&nbsp; Join me in wishing them a fun and productive year!	Welcome Students!	There are many ways to learn and get involved in sustainability at Berkeley.&nbsp; The following are some resources and opportunities to check out.	The College of Chemistry serves as a shining example for UC campuses in its waste minimization efforts through the establishment of its distinctive Chemical ReUse Faciilty (CRF).&nbsp; This chemical storage facility serves as a community pool of reagents that all research groups affiliated with the College can access at no cost.	Cal Dining has just opened the first dining station in the UC system that is certified kosher and designed to appeal not only to the Jewish community on campus, but also to Muslims who eat halal foods, as well as students who are vegetarian and vegan.	The new food station is part of an overall revamping of Café 3 to emphasize plant-forward meals that are sourced locally and sustainably. This is in line with Cal Dining’s overall goal of producing menus that are both nutritious and sustainable.	Open Seats: Student-at-Large Representative; Apply Here! &nbsp;Environmental Sustainability Community-at-Large Representative; Apply Here! Applications are due Monday, September 19th, 2016 5PM.	The Office of Sustainability and Energy and the Climate Readiness Institute have an opening for a one year GSR position.&nbsp; Working on a TGIF-funded Climate Vulnerability Assessment grant, the GSR will work on a detailed assessment of the campus’ vulnerability to future climate change impacts.&nbsp; In the first phase – Initiating Assessment and Developing Vulnerability Report – the TGIF funds would cover the cost of a graduate student (GSR) for one year (at 10 hours per week) to support the analysis, write the Report, and participate on the team.&nbsp;&nbsp; Specifically, the student will be asked to condu	&nbsp; UC Berkeley students embarked on&nbsp;Oceanus&nbsp;to begin&nbsp;their 10-day voyage on the sea along the coast of California to explore how much carbon is stored by the ocean and to understand how this interaction relates to global climate change. James Bishop, a UC Berkeley professor who led this research, actively engages with students who are interested in biochemical processes of aquatic ecosystems via undergraduate research sponsored by the Undergraduate Research Apprenticeship Program (URAP) and teaching a Big Idea Course, called "Oceans".	Health and safety of Olympians has been an ongoing story at&nbsp;Summer Olympic games. In 2008, air quality raised concerns in Beijing, while 2016 has been dogged with questions about polluted water and the Zika virus. Now, a new commentary co-written by UC Berkeley professor Kirk Smith says the future of the summer Olympics may be in jeopardy for another reason: rising heat and humidity due to climate change.		The UC Global Food Initiative just announced the winners of the "30 under 30" leaders in Food systems!&nbsp; We are so pleased and excited that 6 of the 30 chosen winners from around the country are alums or students of UC Berkeley! &nbsp; &nbsp;	Congratulations to Ruben Canedo, Lauren Ponisio, Laura Moreno, Sophie Egan, Jamal Ahmad, and Elaine Lander!! &nbsp;	In May 2016, 11 departments gathered to celebrate their recent certification as Green Departments.&nbsp; The departments vary in size, mission, and location, but share a common goal of making the campus more green.&nbsp; Their Green Teams worked over the last three months to make improvements and to educate their colleagues on new and existing practices.&nbsp;&nbsp; Their efforts were recognized at a recent gathering, where CNR Dean Keith Gilless presented the teams with their certificates.&nbsp; Congratulations to all eleven departments!	High above the clock tower and overlooking campus is UC Berkeley’s Space Sciences Laboratory (SSL), established in 1958 for the purpose of conducting space research.&nbsp; SSL ventured into new territory recently as it introduced a four-bin waste management program at its three buildings on the top of the Berkeley Hills.&nbsp; Until last fall, no such program had ever existed at the lab.&nbsp; And it turns out that the program was not onl	Four years into a record-breaking drought, work crews have spent the past months replacing selected grass lawns on the UC Berkeley campus with mulched beds and regionally appropriate, drought-tolerant plantings.	In conjunction with UC Berkeley’s commitment to sustainability and green design, and support from The Green Initiative Fund, Building Sustainability @ Cal (BS@C) is proud to be working with the Division of Real Estate to create a program that promotes sustainable building on campus. BS@C’s program trains student interns with the goal of reducing the environmental footprint of buildings on the UC Berkeley campus.	UC Berkeley won two 2016&nbsp;Higher Education Energy Efficiency and Sustainability Best Practice Awards: Jacobs Hall for Energy Efficiency in Construction/Renovation, and Brown's for Sustainable Food Systems. The Best Practice Awards are selected from campuses in the&nbsp;University of California and California State University systems&nbsp;by the CA Higher Education Sustainability Conference.&nbsp;More information about the Best Practice Awards program can be viewed		Record-setting warmer temperatures are becoming the norm across the planet, and sea-level rise poses a real threat to humanity. What are your solutions?			Interested in applying concepts of sustainability into one of your courses?&nbsp;Want to learn about teaching sustainability and campus resources to help?&nbsp;Want $1000 to help with incorporating sustainability into your teaching?&nbsp;Apply to participate in the Faculty Curriculum Sustainability Workshop!	What:&nbsp;Faculty Curriculum Sustainability WorkshopWhen:&nbsp;10am - 4pm,&nbsp;Thursday, May 5, 2016&nbsp;Where:&nbsp;Room 330&nbsp;Blum Center&nbsp;	To formally recognize contributions of those helping the campus to meet its sustainability goals, the Chancellor’s Advisory Committee on Sustainability (CACS) annually provides awards to faculty, staff, and students that have done outstanding work. The campus community is indebted to the hard work of students, staff, and faculty making Berkeley a more sustainable place to work, live, and play. Nominations can be made for groups or individuals and are open to the entire Cal community.	In its third year, the energy management initiative continues to reduce energy use and costs.&nbsp; This success is driven by actions small and large, from all across campus.&nbsp; Through the energy incentive program – which tracks and rewards savings by campus operating units – the team has seen all units adopt energy-efficient practices.	Do you know a staff member who has had a significant positive impact on sustainability or other areas of the UC Berkeley campus community? Recognize their efforts and nominate them&nbsp;for the 2016 Chancellor's Outstanding Staff Awards. &nbsp;The Chancellor's Outstanding Staff Award (COSA) is one of the highest honors for staff at UC Berkeley.	This award recognizes staff who have demonstrated exceptional initiative in at least two of the following areas:	Who gets to claim the title of the University of California’s coolest campus? After 10 weeks of competition in the first ever Cool Campus Challenge, UC Irvine emerged victorious after a tight race to the finish.	Ben Taube, a 4th year Sustainable Environmental Design major, inspired Cal Band to join the Cool Campus Challenge “as part of an existing initiative of Cal Band going green”.	Berkeley staff members Anne Stinson and Barbara Evans - coworkers, &nbsp;office mates in the A&amp;E Building for 20+ years, and Cool UCB Real Estate Team Members - share how they lower their carbon footprint on campus, at home, and in the commute in between. Both Anne and Barbara are translating their passion for carbon neutrality into leadership in the Cool Campus Challenge.&nbsp;	On Saturday, November 14th&nbsp;UC Berkeley will not only be competing on the football field against Oregon State, but also against other universities across the nation in the Gameday Recycling Challenge and the Pac-12 Zero Waste Bowl! These two challenges are a friendly and spirited way for colleges and universities to promote waste reduction at their football games. Each campus participating selects one of their home games to use as their competition game.	Green Department certification recognizes campus departments and events that have taken extra steps to be more sustainable.&nbsp;The program identifies a set of conditions and actions - some optional and some required - that can be followed in order to be certified. Some of these actions include purchasing and transportation and qualify as points for categories such as waste reduction and energy savings.	The Princeton Review reports green ratings for 804 Colleges for 2016- and UC Berkeley makes the top 24!	The company tallied the ratings for colleges this year based on 2014-2015 surveys of schools concerning their sustainability-related practices, policies and academic offerings.&nbsp; Scores were based on data obtained in a 2014-2015 survey asking:	Climate disruption and fun — two words you have probably never heard together - until the Cool Campus Challenge launched earlier this month.		Congratulations to Mika Sebastian for winning a $50 gift certificate to the Berkeley Student Food Collective! Mika is a first-year Integrative Biology major who enjoys walking through the redwood groves on campus. While she has yet to visit the BSFC, she is excited to try out their locally-sourced and sustainably-produced foods.	Here's a mid-semester update on the various bike-related projects happening around the campus.		This year Berkeley will install 1MW of Solar PV&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 	Installations are underway at five campus sites.	The Faculty Climate Action Champion Program will honor one Berkeley faculty member for outstanding teaching, research, and public service in the areas of climate change solutions, action, and broad engagement.&nbsp; This award will also provide the Champion with $25,000 to develop, improve, transform, and expand this teaching and research work in an interdisciplinary manner over the course of the tenure p	Welcome back, Campus Bike Riders!&nbsp;Hopefully, you had a fantastic summer and took advantage of the less-than-overcast weather to do some extra riding. To kick off the 2015-16 academic year, here’s an update on several exciting bike-related things that have been happening around the campus.		On July 20th, the Carbon Neutrality Initiative Fellows attended the California Higher Education Sustainability Conference to present their projects and research. These students are the first cohort awarded this fellowship, which was created to promote research dedicated to reducing the carbon footprint of the UC campuses and their surrounding communities.&nbsp;Two years ago, UC President Janet Napolitano created an intitative that required all UC campuses to be carbon neutral from building energy use and fleet by 2025.	Berkeley excels in many higher education rankings and can now add another high score:&nbsp; Sierra magazine, the official publication of the Sierra Club, ranked UC Berkeley in the Top 10 of its recently released ninth annual “Cool Schools” ranking of America’s greenest colleges and universities.	UC Berkeley won the first ever Pac-12 Zero Waste Challenge put on by the Green Sports Alliance, an organization consisting of over 300 teams, leagues, and venues. The GSA is committed to promoting sustainability through the platform of sports. Lin King, Recycling and Refuse Manager and Katherine Walsh, Director of the Student Environmental Resource Center accepted the award at the Green Sports Summit in Chicago.	In 2013, UC President Janet Napolitano announced plans for the entire University of California system to achieve carbon neutrality of buildings and vehicle fleets by 2025. In order to help achieve this zero net energy goal, the Office of the President has created a fellowship program to help make an action plan and provide channels for communication among the 10 UC campuses and associated facilities. Several UC Berkeley students have been working on various aspects of the carbon neutrality initiative.	UC Berkeley was honored for its sustainability achievements in the annual Energy Efficiency and Sustainability Best Practice Awards.&nbsp;UC Berkeley won in the Student Energy Efficiency Program for LED Microscope Retrofits and in Overall Sustainable Design for the new Campbell Hall.		The new Lower Sproul Plaza is on track to become one of the most sustainable areas of the UC Berkeley campus.&nbsp;From green building design to innovative stormwater management practices, the Lower Sproul redevelopment&nbsp;project&nbsp;is striving to minimize its environmental impact across a variety of spectra.The project is scheduled to be complete in Fall 2015.&nbsp;	Not enough reason to shop at the Berkeley Student Food Collective? Well check out their discount calendar system!	Multicultural student&nbsp;discount&nbsp;day&nbsp;(5%).&nbsp;Are you an active member in a multicultural student group on campus? Come to the Food Collective every Monday and enjoy 5% off your purchase!&nbsp;	To tackle problems related to quantifying and reducing campus emissions, a student-faculty-staff group called the Cal Climate Action Partnership (CalCAP) was formed in 2006.	Community Choice Energy is a program that allows cities or counties to form a not-for-profit local power agency that bundles the buying power of residents and businesses to purchase electricity. Community Choice empowers local governments to decide where their electricity comes from. The local power agency can purchase electricity from the market or develop clean energy resources to generate its own electricity. Choosing where our electricity comes from lets the community decide how quickly to transition to clean energy.	The Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) recently announced that Bay Area Bike Share, the regional bike share system, will be expanded into Berkeley, Oakland and Emeryville over the next two years, with a target of adding 400 bicycles in Berkeley, 850 bicycles in Oakland and 100 bicycles in Emeryville. The expansion will coincide with expansions in San Francisco and San Jose, where the existing bike share system is already in place.	Water levels in California are currently at the lowest point since records began 100 years ago, and are not expected to recover soon. In response to this severe drought, Governor Jerry Brown officially declared a statewide drought emergency, and created mandatory reductions of urban water use by 25 percent.&nbsp;	UC Berkeley's Crowdfunding platform: where students, faculty, staff members, and researchers can raise money to turn their great ideas into reality.&nbsp;The website currently includes five projects focusing on topics ranging from health and sanitation to “the science of a meaningful life,” and will be online from April 6 to May 6 for a 30-day trial period.	The Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning Department at UC Berkeley partnered with the San Lorenzo Village Home Association and&nbsp;StopWaste&nbsp;to compile a booklet containing color photographs, watercolor paintings, illustrations and drought tolerant plant identifications. There are also recommendations for four drought tolerant garden designs. Learn More.	For the past ten years, Peidong Yang has been trying to make like a tree. Yang, a professor in UC Berkeley’s Department of Chemistry, researches artificial photosynthesis, a process that mimics a leaf’s ability to convert sun, water, and carbon dioxide into fuel. But in his case, the fuel isn’t glucose—it’s gasoline. Learn more.	In my 20+ years at Berkeley, this was one of the best initiatives I have ever seen.&nbsp;I was extremely pleased with what I and my team were able to accomplish."	This was one of the many comments received by Space and Capital Resources during the recent Law School Complex clean up.	Sustainability is all around us- it can be a hobby, passion, major, career, or any combination. For me, sustainability is something I have the opportunity to explore in the classroom and practice in my community. As the Vice President of Sustainability for the Panhellenic Executive Council, my community happens to be thirteen chapter houses and two associate chapters consisting of over 1500 campus women. I have the unique opportunity to guide the sustainable advancement of these women and their Panhellenic organizations.	On Sunday, March 1st, not only did the California Golden Bears Men’s Basketball team challenge Oregon State on the court, winning 73 to 56, but also tried defending their title in the national Recyclemania Game Day Challenge and the new Pac-12 “Road to Zero Waste” competition! UC Berkeley has won in the waste diversion category for the past two years in a row!	Conference Dates:&nbsp;July 20th-24th, 2015 (with core sessions on July 21st&nbsp;and 22nd)	Speaking and Poster Proposals Due:&nbsp;March 1st, 2015 (11:59pm)	Best Practice Awards: Call for Proposals for Award Applications is Not Yet Available	Following a web conference with the UC Berkeley Office of Sustainability and Energy a year ago, the Alameda County Sustainability team has&nbsp;developed a green and healthy events certification program. This program was inspired by UC Berkeley's own Green Event Certification program.	Gracing the College of Engineering this year are new energy-efficient lighting, fans, irrigation systems and solar panels – tangible improvements made possible through the College’s reduced energy consumption.&nbsp;The College received $134,000 in incentive payments in early 2014, and another $125,600 in January 2015, through the Energy Incentive Program, part of the Energy Management Initiative, an Operational Excellence project. The innovative program gives campus departments a financial incentive to save energy.	Yes, it rained a lot these last few days.Unfortunately, while rainfall is up, the amount of snow in the Sierras still lags as do the water levels in our reservoirs.The snowpack matters because melting snow is the main source of water to refill the r	Berkeley recently finalized the latest Sustainability Report, showing our progress towards our goals and becoming a more sustainable campus.&nbsp; &nbsp;	The Energy Office has been working diligently with campus departments to reduce energy use through various channels, including the Energy Incentive Program (EIP) and through supporting technical work in building systems, since the establishment of the Energy Management Initiative (EMI). Collectively, their efforts have been remarkable in reducing campus energy use, but none other has been more successful in a short period of time than the holiday curtailment shutdown.	Job Title: UC President’s Student Carbon Neutrality Engagement and Communications Fellow – Berkeley Campus	The University of California recently created the President’s Carbon Neutrality Student Fellowship/Internship Program to support UC’s goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2025.	Kicking off the spring semester on a green note, the Berkeley Sustainability Community held its first Community of Practice meeting last Friday to discuss and create goals for the upcoming year. Fostered by the Office of Sustainability and Energy, the Community of Practice’s main focus is for “people who share a concern or a passion for something they do [to] learn how to do it better as they interact regularly” (Wenger-Traynor).	The Chancellor’s Advisory Committee on Sustainability (CACS) is now accepting applications for projects under its new Innovation Grant program.&nbsp; CACS has been supporting campus sustainability work through grants and internships since 2006, to further the committee’s goal to promote environmental management and sustainable development at UC Berkeley.&nbsp;The new Innovation Grant program combines the Green Fund Grant and the CACS Internship programs, giving recipients greater flexibility to implement innovative projects or research, either on campus or to the benefit of the broader campus communi	UC Berkeley’s Energy Incentive Program (EIP) is a key part of the Energy Management Initiative. Prior to the EIP, campus Operating Units (OUs) had no direct financial incentive to implement energy-saving measures. The EIP established a baseline for each building based on 2010-2011 electricity use.&nbsp; Units that are below their baseline receive payments, while OUs which exceed their baseline will be asked to pay the difference. Now, thanks to the EIP, campus OUs have a significant incentive to reduce energy use.	It has been a busy and exciting fall for myPower at Berkeley. From social media outreach to adding more live Pulse energy dashboards online to spreading turn-off-the-light stickers through campus, myPower has continued to help empower UC Berkeley students, staff and faculty to take action and reduce energy use. The past few months, myPower has completed energy surveys in numerous campus buildings and offices, including the Energy Biosciences Building, the Office of Legal Affairs, and Mulford Hall, and has worked with building occupants to identify new ways to save energy.	The Office of Sustainability and Energy (OSE), Residential Sustainability Program (RSP) and PowerSave Green Campus (PGC) invite you to engage in a multimedia presentation on climate change and climate action given by ACE (Alliance for Climate Education).	Why Attend? Young people – YOU - have the most to lose when it comes to climate change, and the most to gain by fighting it. ACE (Alliance for Climate Education) helps you take control of your future.&nbsp;Be the change!	When: December 3, 2014, 6-7pm		By&nbsp;Carol Ness, NewsCenter	UC Berkeley celebrated international Food Day 2014 by going super-local, no mean feat for such a big campus. On Friday night, dinners served in all Cal Dining cafes were made almost entirely from foods grown, produced or milled within 260 miles.		Article by Ben Rushakoff	Article by:&nbsp; Ben Rushakoff		A picture is worth a thousand words! During the “Getting Your Bearings” tabling event 2014, we asked students to share with us ways they are living sustainable lives. Aside from striking a pose, students are engaging the campus community in a multimedia dialogue about the importance of leading sustainable lifestyles via our Instagram page!	&nbsp; Article by: Amy Craik	Article by:&nbsp; Ben Rushakoff	Three student fellowships are now available with the University of California Global Food Initiative.	The Office of Sustainability and Energy is excited to announce the latest member of the green department family to recertify their efforts: the University Health Services (UHS) – Tang Center. Originally certified in 2012, the UHS Tang Center has spent the past two years focusing their environmental efforts on waste and energy reduction.	The Dow Chemical Company and Center for Responsible Business (CRB) at the Haas School of Business are proud to bring the Dow Sustainability Innovation Student Challenge Award (SISCA) to UC Berkeley for the fifth year.&nbsp; SISCA&nbsp; recognizes&nbsp; and&nbsp; rewards&nbsp; students&nbsp; for&nbsp; their&nbsp; innovation&nbsp; and&nbsp; research&nbsp; in&nbsp; sustainable solutions for the world's most pressing social, economic, and environmental problems.&nbsp; SISCA competitions are held at seventeen top universities around the world, with gran	Did you know that in the U.S., toilet flushing is the single highest use of water in the average home? While newer, efficient toilets use closer to one and a half gallons of water per flush, older models can use up to seven gallons.		Article by Amy Fudenberg	Did you know that since February, the campus has reduced water use by ten percent? For an array of useful tips on how to save water on campus and at home and for more information on what UC Berkeley is doing to conserve water, visit the campus drought alert page here.&nbsp;	The start of the school year is the perfect time for new and returning students alike to become engaged in campus sustainability. Learn about the different environmental&nbsp;organizations and initiatives&nbsp;at UC Berkeley by attending these upcoming events.&nbsp;	Interested in learning more about what is causing California's drought? A four miles high, 2,000 miles long high-pressure ridge is pushing rain north and preventing it from reaching California. No one knows exactly what is causing such an unusual ridge, and this ridge is even worse than the one which contributed to the 1976-1977 drought. Click&nbsp;here&nbsp;for the full story.	UC Berkeley has been awarded the 2014 APPA Effective &amp; Innovative Practices Award for its submission "Providing Financial Incentives to Promote Energy Conservation by Building Occupants". As one of the five schools selected, UC Berkeley received a $4,000 cash award sponsored by Sodexo. 	Credit: Robert Durell.&nbsp; UC President Janet Napolitano (right) tours the Edible Schoolyard at Berkeley's Martin Luther King Jr. Middle School with founder and restaurateur Alice Waters.	UC Berkeley's Cal Climate Action Partnership (CalCAP) has been recognized for its leadership in climate action - for meeting its first greenhouse gas emissions reduction target and for the strategies that brought this success including student and faculty engagement, innovative planning, broad partnerships, financial investment, and the institutionalization of carbon reducing strategies throughout the organization.		Building Clean Up Week is an innovative program, sponsored by&nbsp;Space &amp; Capital Resources, to help&nbsp;the campus community&nbsp;purge junk in order to create more usable space.			BY&nbsp;KATHLEEN TIERNEY&nbsp;| STAFF	We are pleased to announce two Green Department re-certifications last month – both Capital Projects (down on Uni­versity Avenue) and the UC Police Department submitted and qualified for the highest award bracket (Green).	by Lindsey Agnew	UC Berkeley staff from a variety of departments came together to exchange ideas about sustainability and learn how to incorporate sustainable practices into their offices during the Office of Sustainability’s third annual Staff Sustainability Training. The free WORKbright green event took place on Friday, February 28, from 10 am to 5pm.	“What steps are you already taking to save energy?” Rohini Rajgopal, myPower Energy Associate and 3rd&nbsp;year Public Health Major, asks this question during each of the energy surveys she assists in conducting.	Continuing and improving on a long tradition of energy curtailment during the winter holiday, the Energy Office is reporting even more savings this past curtailment than the previous year. A total of $113,200 in energy costs were saved throughout the December 2013- January 2014 closure.	A good deal of these savings can be attributed to steam conservation. Kevin Ng, Energy Analyst, noted that “we worked much closer with the Stationary Engineer shop and were able to shut down more steam use in buildings.”	Download back issues of Bright Green News: &nbsp;	California’s official drought emergency approached the one month mark and UC Berkeley intensifies its efforts to conserve H20. &nbsp;At the inaugural meeting of the Berkeley Sustainability Community, a new forum for environmentally minded students, staff and faculty to meet together and share ideas about how to conserve.	“There is a vast amount of untapped energy in the oceans, and with increasing worldwide demand for power, the need to find cleaner alternatives to fossil fuels is critical,” said assistant professor Reza Alam, an expert in wave mechanics. “We are also seeing greater population growth along coastal cities, so the ocean-based system we are developing would produce electricity in a carbon-neutral way right where it is needed.”	Funded my the National Science Foundation,&nbsp;UC Berkeley scientists will receive $4,900,000 over the next five years to study the nearly 10,000 square kilometer Eel River watershed in Northern California and how its vegetation, geology and topography affect water flow all the way to the Pacific Ocean.	A new development by researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, could lead to curtains and other materials that move in response to light, thus eliminating the need for batteries.	By Somin Park	On Jan. 1, UC Berkeley will take on a new year’s resolution of sorts as the campus implements a new energy use policy aimed at saving energy and reducing costs for the years to come.	Office of Sustainability615H University HallBerkeley, CA 94720	Email: sustainability@berkeley.edu Phone: (510) 642-0074	Home Office of SustainabilityEngage Zero Waste Carbon NeutralityRethinking EnergyOur PerformancePlans &amp; Reports	Berkeley Main Page Vice Chancellor Administration Visiting Berkeley	Powered by Open Berkeley	Accessibility Statement	Nondiscrimination Policy Statement	Privacy Statement	Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved 	Back to Top	
There are two ways to donate to sustainability efforts at Berkeley, the Chancellor’s Green Campus Fund and the Climate Action and Campus Solar Fund. &nbsp;Each fund has a different focus.	Giving to the Chancellor's Green Campus Fund helps the Berkeley campus community undertake projects that will create a greener, more environmentally sustainable campus — while saving resources and money in the process.	To help keep our momentum going, donate to the Chancellor’s Green Campus Fund.		The Climate Action and Campus Solar Fund supports projects and student research that reduce UC Berkeley's carbon footprint and&nbsp;power the campus with the sun.&nbsp;	The Office of Sustainability has a goal to install 4 megawatts of on-site solar for the Berkeley campus. Berkeley met its first greenhouse gas emissions reduction target bringing emissions back to levels they were 25 years ago. Now we are striving to be carbon neutral from energy use by 2025.	This funding is already helping us with our next round of solar installations. Help us do more!&nbsp;Your donations will be used to support campus solar and carbon neutrality projects and fund student undergraduate and graduate students’ creative initiatives and research that contribute to carbon-cutting solutions.	Unlike most "carbon offsets," donations to the Fund are tax-deductable!	Donate		Solar panels on the roof of the Martin Luther King Jr. Student Union		Solar panels onthe Recreational Sports Facility	Office of Sustainability615H University HallBerkeley, CA 94720	Email: sustainability@berkeley.edu Phone: (510) 642-0074	Home Office of SustainabilityEngage Zero Waste Carbon NeutralityRethinking EnergyOur PerformancePlans &amp; Reports	Berkeley Main Page Vice Chancellor Administration Visiting Berkeley	Powered by Open Berkeley	Accessibility Statement	Nondiscrimination Policy Statement	Privacy Statement	Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved 	Back to Top	
The Office of Sustainability is located at:	2018 Oxford St	615H University Hall, UC Berkeley	Berkeley, CA 94720	Our office hours are Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. We are closed on federal holidays and university administrative holidays.	Our main telephone number is (510) 642-0074.Our office fax is (510) 643-9266.	Have a general question? Found a problem with the website? Please email&nbsp;sustainability@berkeley.edu.	If you are interested in receiving updates on the status of sustainability on campus, join our mailing list! Simply&nbsp;click here&nbsp;or visit tinyurl.com/officeofsustainability and enter your information.	To reach a particular Office of Sustainability team member, please see the TEAM page.		Office of Sustainability615H University HallBerkeley, CA 94720	Email: sustainability@berkeley.edu Phone: (510) 642-0074	Home Office of SustainabilityEngage Zero Waste Carbon NeutralityRethinking EnergyOur PerformancePlans &amp; Reports	Berkeley Main Page Vice Chancellor Administration Visiting Berkeley	Powered by Open Berkeley	Accessibility Statement	Nondiscrimination Policy Statement	Privacy Statement	Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved 	Back to Top	